all right I wanted to take you through a
few different steps for DJ and live in
Ableton I've done a tutorial on how to
put a DJ mix together in the arrangement
window but I wanted to get into more of
live use in the session window so in
this particular tutorial I'm going to
get into how you set up your cue
settings and basically how you use a
cross fader first thing I should let you
know is that as far as warping your
songs that's something that you want to
do in advance and I have two tutorials
on warping your songs so go ahead and
look at those if you have any questions
on that first and foremost I'm gonna
teach you the basic approach with two
tracks with with DJ and live in Ableton
you could probably use as many tracks as
you like but you're pretty much going to
have two tracks as your main setup you
know just like having two turntables or
whatever so we're setting this up in
audio one and audio two and I've dragged
two separate tracks in one in each
window and basically the first thing
that you want to figure out how to do is
how to cue your tracks so I can for
example listen to this track here while
this one's playing in order to queue a
track you are going to need a multiple
output sound card something with more
than just stereo out otherwise it's just
not going to it's not going to work so
in this case I don't have any more than
stereo outputs and even if I did you
wouldn't be able to hear the cue in this
tutorial so what I'm doing is I'm going
to set the main output to the left
speaker and then I'm gonna set the Q
output to the right speaker so basically
you can kind of see what they're both
doing
like I said before this is just for the
tutorial you're going to want to have
more than two outputs so let's go ahead
and start first thing that you're going
to want to do is over in this area here
you're going to see you've got a cue out
section here and this is where you would
find all your multiple out so let's say
you had six or eight outputs you could
come over here and choose output three
and four for your cue and then your main
output would be one and two in this case
I'm gonna choose output two which is
going to be your right speaker and then
the master out I'm just going to put to
the left speaker which is going to be
output one and then on both of my tracks
I'm gonna go ahead and assign this to
one and assign this to one as well just
like so now normally when you set it up
properly these outputs would be one and
two and your cue would be set up to
three and four or whatever
what you'll notice now is since I've set
this cue to its own output this has
changed here to Q and this right here
now becomes your headphone volume so if
I want to let's say Q this track right
here I'll show you I'll bring this down
here and
now we're queueing but you're also
hearing it in the main speaker because
the volume is up so volume is down
you're only gonna hear it need to write
speaker and same thing over here
just like so so let's say this this song
here so what you hear in the left
speaker would actually be what the
audience would hear and what you hear in
the right speaker is what you're hearing
until you decide to go ahead and mix
this one in and then it will come up to
now they're both playing to the left
speaker so I'll turn off the cue and you
got both songs playing so let me stop
this for a second because that's
essentially how it works with the volume
now you could also work with with the
cross fader and in that case you would
just go ahead and leave both of your
volumes up and you would assign here's
your cross waiter over here follow my
arrow down here is the actual cross
fader just all the way to the left and
right now the right side is going to
represent a so I excuse me the left side
is going to represent a so you want to
put your your first audio track on a and
your second audio track on be that way
if I go ahead and play both of them
right now I'm hearing audio one because
I got my cross fader set over here and
then as I blend
[Music]
you'll hear the other tracks starting to
come in and now it's starting to take
over just like so so let me go ahead and
stop that and what you're going to want
to do you're not going to want to use
the cross fader with your mouse you
would go ahead and assign that to one of
the knobs on your controller would be
the best approach to use and you would
just simply hit MIDI and grab that
controller and then twist the knob that
you want to control it turn it off
and now when I twist that knob I got
cement a smooth transition I'll get a
little bit more into MIDI setup on
another tutorial I think this is going
to be a four part tutorial but
essentially this is the basic way that
you set up for cueing and and set up
your cross fader you don't just have to
assign one track to a and one track to B
you could have as many tracks as you
want essentially but I'm trying to set
you up for the easiest DJ approach and
one that's most common to use what some
people might do with these other tracks
is they'll actually load all the songs
that they want in their playlist and
then they'll unclick this in and out
here and then you you have all the
selections so if you're playing for an
hour or two hours you might have twenty
tracks to choose from in here you could
queue those up over here and see what
song you want to play and then just drag
it into your audio one or your audio two
as necessary and that's going to be it
for part 1 of this tutorial
come back for part part two
you